README.md, before:

# pprz-py-plotter

Old repo: https://github.com/Pelochus/pprz-py-plotter

New version of Paparazzi's logplotter utility, focused around NumPy.

![GUI-Screenshot](https://github.com/Swarm-Systems-Lab/pprz-py-plotter/blob/master/img/screenshot.png)
_Screenshot under KDE Plasma 5, Breeze Dark theme_

## Quick Install (Ubuntu/Debian)

Run the following command:

```bash
curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Swarm-Systems-Lab/pprz-py-plotter/master/install.sh | sudo bash"
```

## Usage

First, install Python and NumPy on your system. If you didn't follow the quick install and are on Ubuntu/Debian based distros:

```bash
sudo apt install python3-full python3-numpy python3-matplotlib python3-lxml python3-pyqt5 -y
```

Then clone the repo:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/Swarm-Systems-Lab/pprz-py-plotter.git
cd pprz-py-plotter
```

Run with (GUI):

```bash
./pprz-py-plotter
```

Typical workflow will be as follows:

- Open pprz-py-plotter
- Select one folder which contains a `.log` file and a `.data` file. If there is more than one it will take the very first 2
- The program will parse for telemetry and datalink messages
- Inside the program select which ID do you want to see data for
- Select which variables do you want displayed with checkboxes. This is a little bit cumbersome to do, but works.
- Refresh the plot and see the data

Run (CLI):

```bash
./pprz-py-plotter-cli filename.data filename.log [-v/--verbose]
```

By default, this will convert the data to a NumPy array format, in a plain text file `.npy` file.
Results will be saved in the `output` folder, in folders, one with each message.
For example, we want to extract the `INS` message from the example log, results will be like this:

```bash
output
└── INS
    ├── ins_xdd.npy
    ├── ins_xd.npy
    ├── ins_x.npy
    ├── ins_ydd.npy
    ├── ins_yd.npy
    ├── ins_y.npy
    ├── ins_zdd.npy
    ├── ins_zd.npy
    ├── ins_z.npy
    └── TIMESTAMP.npy
```

Where every file is a variable inside the message, plus the `TIMESTAMP` variable extracted from the `.data` file.

## Repo structure

This repository directory structure is as follows:

- `ìmg`: Contains the logo and image files
- `logs`: Example logs for testing. Extracted from a Bebop2's log in Paparazzi 6.4
- `pprzlogutils`: A small library for decoupling the functions and variables. Nothing too fancy.

## Useful Links

For usage with CLI, numpy and matplotlib:
- https://numpy.org/doc/stable/reference/generated/numpy.array.html
- https://numpy.org/doc/stable/reference/generated/numpy.savetxt.html

Commit message:

Added .npy files usage example

README.md, after:

# pprz-py-plotter

Old repo: https://github.com/Pelochus/pprz-py-plotter

New version of Paparazzi's logplotter utility, focused around NumPy.

![GUI-Screenshot](https://github.com/Swarm-Systems-Lab/pprz-py-plotter/blob/master/img/screenshot.png)
_Screenshot under KDE Plasma 5, Breeze Dark theme_

## Quick Install (Ubuntu/Debian)

Run the following command:

```bash
curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Swarm-Systems-Lab/pprz-py-plotter/master/install.sh | sudo bash"
```

## Usage

First, install Python and NumPy on your system. If you didn't follow the quick install and are on Ubuntu/Debian based distros:

```bash
sudo apt install python3-full python3-numpy python3-matplotlib python3-lxml python3-pyqt5 -y
```

Then clone the repo:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/Swarm-Systems-Lab/pprz-py-plotter.git
cd pprz-py-plotter
```

Run with (GUI):

```bash
./pprz-py-plotter
```

Typical workflow will be as follows:

- Open pprz-py-plotter
- Select one folder which contains a `.log` file and a `.data` file. If there is more than one it will take the very first 2
- The program will parse for telemetry and datalink messages
- Inside the program select which ID do you want to see data for
- Select which variables do you want displayed with checkboxes. This is a little bit cumbersome to do, but works.
- Refresh the plot and see the data

Run (CLI):

```bash
./pprz-py-plotter-cli filename.data filename.log [-v/--verbose]
```

By default, this will convert the data to a NumPy array format, in a plain text file `.npy` file.
Results will be saved in the `output` folder, in folders, one with each message.
For example, we want to extract the `INS` message from the example log, results will be like this:

```bash
output
└── INS
    ├── ins_xdd.npy
    ├── ins_xd.npy
    ├── ins_x.npy
    ├── ins_ydd.npy
    ├── ins_yd.npy
    ├── ins_y.npy
    ├── ins_zdd.npy
    ├── ins_zd.npy
    ├── ins_z.npy
    └── TIMESTAMP.npy
```

Where every file is a variable inside the message, plus the `TIMESTAMP` variable extracted from the `.data` file.

### Use of .npy files

To use `.npy` files output by the CLI version:

```python
import numpy as np
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt

var = np.loadtxt("ins_x.npy")
plt.plot(var)
plt.show()
```

## Repo structure

This repository directory structure is as follows:

- `ìmg`: Contains the logo and image files
- `logs`: Example logs for testing. Extracted from a Bebop2's log in Paparazzi 6.4
- `pprzlogutils`: A small library for decoupling the functions and variables. Nothing too fancy.

## Useful Links

For usage with CLI, numpy and matplotlib:
- https://numpy.org/doc/stable/reference/generated/numpy.array.html
- https://numpy.org/doc/stable/reference/generated/numpy.savetxt.html
